'\" te
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH symilar 1 "9 Jun 2009" "SunOS 5.11"
.SH NAME
.B symilar
\- finds copy pasted blocks in a set of files

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/bin/symilar
[
.I OPTIONS
]  file...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B symilar
is a helper script for pylint. Symilar will display information
about duplicate lines in a file.  The output lists the total number of lines,
how many duplicate lines found and what percentage of the lines are duplicates.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "--duplicates, -dl  min_duplicated_line"
sets a minimum threshhold for duplicated lines
.IP "--help, -h"
displays help message 
.IP "--ignore-comments"
do not include duplicates found in comment blocks

.SH USAGE
symilar [-d|--duplicates min_duplicated_lines] [--ignore-comments] file..

.SH FILES
/usr/lib/python2.6/vendor-packages/pylint

.SH SUPPORT
python-projects@logilab.org

.SH SEE ALSO
.IR pylint (1),
.IR logilab-common (3), 
.IR logilab-astng (3)
