'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, 2016, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH mailq 1 "8 Mar 2016" "SunOS 5.12" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mailq \- print the mail queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/mailq\fR [\fB-Ac\fR] [\fB-q\fR \fIsubarg\fR] [\fB-v\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmailq\fR utility displays a summary of the mail messages queued for future delivery.
.sp
.LP
The first line displayed for each mail message shows the internal identifier used on this host for the message, the size of the message in bytes, the date and time the message was accepted into the queue, and the envelope sender of the message. The second line of the display shows the error message that caused this message to be retained in the queue. This line will not be displayed if the message is being processed for the first time.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmailq\fR utility used to be identical to \fBsendmail\fR \fB-bp\fR. Now it checks for the authorization attribute, \fBsolaris.mail.mailq\fR. If the check for the invoking user succeeds, \fBsendmail\fR \fB-bp\fR is executed with the remaining argument vector. Otherwise, an error message is printed. This authorization attribute is by default enabled for all users. It can be disabled by modifying the Basic Solaris User entry in \fBprof_attr\fR(5).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-Ac\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
Like \fBsendmail\fR(8), this flag tells \fBmailq\fR to use \fBsubmit.cf\fR rather than \fBsendmail.cf\fR even  if  the  operation  mode  does  not indicate an initial mail submission. This will result in the client queue \fB/var/spool/clientmqueue\fR being displayed rather than the default server queue \fB/var/spool/mqueue\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fBp\fR[\fItime\fR] \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
Similar to \fB-q\fR\fItime\fR, except that instead of periodically forking a child to process the queue, \fBsendmail\fR forks a single persistent child for each queue that alternates between processing the queue and sleeping. The sleep time is given as the argument. The sleep time default is \fB1\fR second. The process will always sleep at least 5 seconds if the queue was empty in the previous queue run.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fBf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
Processes saved  messages in the queue once and does not \fBfork()\fR, but runs in the foreground.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fBG\fR \fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
Processes jobs in the queue group called \fIname\fR only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR[\fB!\fR]\fBI\fR \fIsubstr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
Limits processed jobs to those containing \fIsubstr\fR as a substring of the queue id, or not when \fB!\fR is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR[\fB!\fR]\fBR\fR \fIsubstr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
Limits processed jobs to those containing \fIsubstr\fR as a substring of one of the recipients, or not when \fB!\fR is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR[\fB!\fR]\fBS\fR \fIsubstr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
Limits processed jobs to those containing \fIsubstr\fR as a substring of the sender, or not when \fB!\fR is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
Prints verbose information. This adds the priority of the message and a single character indicator (\fB+\fR or blank) indicating  whether a warning message has been sent on the first line of the message. Additionally, extra lines may be intermixed with the recipients that indicate the "controlling user" information. This shows who will own any programs that are executed on behalf of this message and the name of the alias this command is expanded from, if any.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/security/prof_attr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
local source for execution profile attributes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/spool/mqueue\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
default server queue
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/spool/clientmqueue\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
client queue
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(7) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/network/smtp/sendmail
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBprof_attr\fR(5), \fBattributes\fR(7), \fBsendmail\fR(8)
