# WiFi drivers and related software

depend type=require fmri=driver/network/arn
depend type=require fmri=driver/network/ath
depend type=require fmri=driver/network/atu
depend type=require fmri=driver/network/ipw
depend type=require fmri=driver/network/iwh
depend type=require fmri=driver/network/iwi
depend type=require fmri=driver/network/iwk
depend type=require fmri=driver/network/iwn
depend type=require fmri=driver/network/iwp
depend type=require fmri=driver/network/mwl
depend type=require fmri=driver/network/ral
depend type=require fmri=driver/network/rtw
depend type=require fmri=driver/network/rum
depend type=require fmri=driver/network/rwd
depend type=require fmri=driver/network/rwn
depend type=require fmri=driver/network/uath
depend type=require fmri=driver/network/ural
depend type=require fmri=driver/network/urtw
depend type=require fmri=driver/network/wpi
depend type=require fmri=driver/network/zyd
depend type=require fmri=service/network/wpa
depend type=require fmri=system/network/wificonfig
