.TH "DOCKER" "1" " Docker User Manuals" "Docker Community" "JUNE 2014"  ""


.SH NAME
.PP
docker\-logs \- Fetch the logs of a container


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdocker logs\fP
[\fB\-f\fP|\fB\-\-follow\fP]
[\fB\-\-help\fP]
[\fB\-\-since\fP[=\fISINCE\fP]]
[\fB\-t\fP|\fB\-\-timestamps\fP]
[\fB\-\-tail\fP[=\fI"all"\fP]]
CONTAINER


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fBdocker logs\fP command batch\-retrieves whatever logs are present for
a container at the time of execution. This does not guarantee execution
order when combined with a docker run (i.e., your run may not have generated
any logs at the time you execute docker logs).

.PP
The \fBdocker logs \-\-follow\fP command combines commands \fBdocker logs\fP and
\fBdocker attach\fP. It will first return all logs from the beginning and
then continue streaming new output from the container’s stdout and stderr.

.PP
\fBWarning\fP: This command works only for the \fBjson\-file\fP or \fBjournald\fP
logging drivers.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\-\-help\fP
  Print usage statement

.PP
\fB\-f\fP, \fB\-\-follow\fP=\fItrue\fP|\fIfalse\fP
   Follow log output. The default is \fIfalse\fP.

.PP
\fB\-\-since\fP=""
   Show logs since timestamp

.PP
\fB\-t\fP, \fB\-\-timestamps\fP=\fItrue\fP|\fIfalse\fP
   Show timestamps. The default is \fIfalse\fP.

.PP
\fB\-\-tail\fP="\fIall\fP"
   Output the specified number of lines at the end of logs (defaults to all logs)

.PP
The \fB\fC\-\-since\fR option can be Unix timestamps, date formated timestamps, or Go
duration strings (e.g. \fB\fC10m\fR, \fB\fC1h30m\fR) computed relative to the client machine’s
time. Supported formats for date formated time stamps include RFC3339Nano,
RFC3339, \fB\fC2006\-01\-02T15:04:05\fR, \fB\fC2006\-01\-02T15:04:05.999999999\fR,
\fB\fC2006\-01\-02Z07:00\fR, and \fB\fC2006\-01\-02\fR. The local timezone on the client will be
used if you do not provide either a \fB\fCZ\fR or a \fB\fC+\-00:00\fR timezone offset at the
end of the timestamp.  When providing Unix timestamps enter
seconds[.nanoseconds], where seconds is the number of seconds that have elapsed
since January 1, 1970 (midnight UTC/GMT), not counting leap  seconds (aka Unix
epoch or Unix time), and the optional .nanoseconds field is a fraction of a
second no more than nine digits long. You can combine the \fB\fC\-\-since\fR option with
either or both of the \fB\fC\-\-follow\fR or \fB\fC\-\-tail\fR options.


.SH HISTORY
.PP
April 2014, Originally compiled by William Henry (whenry at redhat dot com)
based on docker.com source material and internal work.
June 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit 
\[la]SvenDowideit@home.org.au\[ra]
July 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit 
\[la]SvenDowideit@home.org.au\[ra]
April 2015, updated by Ahmet Alp Balkan 
\[la]ahmetalpbalkan@gmail.com\[ra]
October 2015, updated by Mike Brown 
\[la]mikebrow@gmail.com\[ra]
