.TH "DOCKER" "1" " Docker User Manuals" "Docker Community" "JUNE 2014"  ""


.SH NAME
.PP
docker\-search \- Search the Docker Hub for images


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdocker search\fP
[\fB\-\-automated\fP]
[\fB\-\-help\fP]
[\fB\-\-no\-trunc\fP]
[\fB\-s\fP|\fB\-\-stars\fP[=\fI0\fP]]
TERM


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Search Docker Hub for images that match the specified \fB\fCTERM\fR. The table
of images returned displays the name, description (truncated by default), number
of stars awarded, whether the image is official, and whether it is automated.

.PP
\fINote\fP \- Search queries will only return up to 25 results


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\-\-automated\fP=\fItrue\fP|\fIfalse\fP
   Only show automated builds. The default is \fIfalse\fP.

.PP
\fB\-\-help\fP
  Print usage statement

.PP
\fB\-\-no\-trunc\fP=\fItrue\fP|\fIfalse\fP
   Don't truncate output. The default is \fIfalse\fP.

.PP
\fB\-s\fP, \fB\-\-stars\fP=\fIX\fP
   Only displays with at least X stars. The default is zero.


.SH EXAMPLES
.SH Search Docker Hub for ranked images
.PP
Search a registry for the term 'fedora' and only display those images
ranked 3 or higher:

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker search \-s 3 fedora
NAME                  DESCRIPTION                                    STARS OFFICIAL  AUTOMATED
mattdm/fedora         A basic Fedora image corresponding roughly...  50
fedora                (Semi) Official Fedora base image.             38
mattdm/fedora\-small   A small Fedora image on which to build. Co...  8
goldmann/wildfly      A WildFly application server running on a ...  3               [OK]

.fi
.RE

.SH Search Docker Hub for automated images
.PP
Search Docker Hub for the term 'fedora' and only display automated images
ranked 1 or higher:

.PP
.RS

.nf
$ docker search \-\-automated \-s 1 fedora
NAME               DESCRIPTION                                     STARS OFFICIAL  AUTOMATED
goldmann/wildfly   A WildFly application server running on a ...   3               [OK]
tutum/fedora\-20    Fedora 20 image with SSH access. For the r...   1               [OK]

.fi
.RE


.SH HISTORY
.PP
April 2014, Originally compiled by William Henry (whenry at redhat dot com)
based on docker.com source material and internal work.
June 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit 
\[la]SvenDowideit@home.org.au\[ra]
April 2015, updated by Mary Anthony for v2 
\[la]mary@docker.com\[ra]
