.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\"
'\" te
.TH wxrc 1 "5 Aug 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wxrc \- compile binary xml resource files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBwxrc\fR [\fB\fIresource_filename\fR] 
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBwxrc\fR [\fB\fIresource_filename\fR] [\fB\fIoptions\fR]... 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBwxrc\fR utility compiles binary xml resource files. It takes one or more file parameters (the input XRC files).
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.TP
\fB-h\fR
.TP
\fB--help\fR
Show a help message.

.TP
\fB-v\fR
.TP
\fB--verbose\fR
Show verbose logging information

.TP
\fB-c\fR
.TP
\fB--cpp-code\fR
Write C++ source rather than a XRS file

.TP
\fB-e\fR
.TP
\fB--extra-cpp-code\fR
If used together with -c, generates C++ header file containing class definitions for the windows defined by the XRC file (see special subsection)

.TP
\fB-u\fR
.TP
\fB--uncompressed\fR
Do not compress XML files (C++ only)

.TP
\fB-g\fR
.TP
\fB--gettext\fR
Output underscore-wrapped strings that poEdit or gettext can scan. Outputs to stdout, of a file -o is used.

.TP
\fB-n\fR
.TP
\fB--function\fR
<name>: Specify C++ function name (use with -c)

.TP
\fB-o\fR
.TP
\fB--output\fR
<filename>: Specify the output file, such as resource .xrs or resource .cpp.

.TP
\fB-l\fR
.TP
\fB--list-of-handlers\fR
<filename>: Output a list of necessary handlers to this file

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRCompiling resource .xrc file
.LP

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ wxrc reource.xrc
example$ wxrc -o reource.xrs
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRCompiling resource .cpp file
.LP

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ wxrc -v -c -o resource.cpp
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBwx-config\fR(1)
