'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH gss_get_mic 3GSS "22 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.12" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_get_mic \- calculate a cryptographic message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR... ] 
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_get_mic\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_ctx_id_t\fR \fIcontext_handle\fR, \fBgss_qop_t\fR \fIqop_req\fR,
     \fBconst gss_buffer_t\fR \fImessage_buffer\fR, \fBgss_buffer_t\fR \fImsg_token\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_get_mic()\fR function generates a cryptographic \fBMIC\fR for the supplied message, and places the \fBMIC\fR in a token for transfer to the peer application. The \fIqop_req\fR parameter allows a choice between several cryptographic algorithms, if supported by the chosen mechanism.
.sp
.LP
Since some application-level protocols may wish to use tokens emitted by \fBgss_wrap\fR(3GSS) to provide secure framing, the \fBGSS-API\fR allows \fBMIC\fRs to be derived from zero-length messages.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_get_mic()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The status code returned by the underlying mechanism.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcontext_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Identifies the context on which the message will be sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIqop_req\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Specifies the requested quality of protection. Callers are encouraged, on portability grounds, to accept the default quality of protection offered by the chosen mechanism, which may be requested by specifying \fBGSS_C_QOP_DEFAULT\fR for this parameter. If an unsupported protection strength is requested, \fBgss_get_mic()\fR will return a \fImajor_status\fR of \fBGSS_S_BAD_QOP\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImessage_buffer\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The message to be protected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImsg_token\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The buffer to receive the token. Storage associated with this message must be freed by the application after use with a call to \fBgss_release_buffer\fR(3GSS).
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_get_mic()\fR may return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_CONTEXT_EXPIRED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
The context has already expired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_NO_CONTEXT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
The \fIcontext_handle\fR parameter did not identify a valid context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_BAD_QOP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
The specified \fBQOP\fR is not supported by the mechanism.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_release_buffer\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_wrap\fR(3GSS), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP

