'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH gss_create_empty_oid_set 3GSS "22 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.12" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_create_empty_oid_set \- create an object-identifier set containing no object identifiers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR... ] 
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_create_empty_oid_set\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBgss_OID_set *\fR\fIoid_set\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_create_empty_oid_set()\fR function creates an object-identifier set containing no object identifiers to which members may be subsequently added using the \fBgss_add_oid_set_member\fR(3GSS) function.  These functions can be used to construct sets of mechanism object identifiers for input to \fBgss_acquire_cred\fR(3GSS).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_create_empty_oid_set()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Mechanism-specific status code
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIoid_set\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Empty object identifier set. The function will allocate the \fBgss_OID_set_desc\fR object, which the  application must free after use with a call to \fBgss_release_oid_set\fR(3GSS).
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_create_empty_oid_set()\fR function may return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Successful completion
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_acquire_cred\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_add_oid_set_member\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_release_oid_set\fR(3GSS), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP

