'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH gss_compare_name 3GSS "22 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.12" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_compare_name \- compare two internal-form names
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR]  \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR [\fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR] 
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_compare_name\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_name_t\fR \fIname1\fR,\fBconst gss_name_t\fR \fIname2\fR,
     \fBint *\fR\fIname_equal\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_compare_name()\fR function allows an application to compare two internal-form names to determine whether they refer to the same entity.
.sp
.LP
If either name presented to \fBgss_compare_name()\fR denotes an anonymous principal, the routines indicate that the two names do not refer to the same identity.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_compare_name()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIname1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Internal-form name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIname2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Internal-form name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIname_equal\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
If non-zero, the names refer to same entity. If 0, the names refer to different entities. Strictly, the names are not known to refer to the same identity.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_compare_name()\fR function may return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_BAD_NAMETYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The two names were of incomparable types.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_BAD_NAME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
One or both of \fIname1\fR or \fIname2\fR was ill-formed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP

