'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH gss_canonicalize_name 3GSS "22 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.12" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_canonicalize_name \- convert an internal name to a mechanism name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR [\fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR] 
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_canonicalize_name\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_name_t\fR \fIinput_name\fR,\fBconst gss_OID\fR \fImech_type\fR,
     \fBgss_name_t *\fR\fIoutput_name\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_canonicalize_name()\fR function generates a canonical mechanism name from an arbitrary internal name.  The mechanism name is the name that would be returned to a context acceptor on successful authentication of a context where the initiator used the \fIinput_name\fR in a successful call to \fBgss_acquire_cred\fR(3GSS), specifying an OID set containing \fImech_type\fR as its only member, followed by a call to \fBgss_init_sec_context\fR(3GSS), specifying \fImech_type\fR as the authentication mechanism.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_canonicalize_name()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIinput_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
The name for which a canonical form is desired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImech_type\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
The authentication mechanism for which the canonical form of the name is desired.  The desired mechanism must be specified explicitly; no default is provided.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIoutput_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
The resultant canonical name.  Storage associated with this name must be freed by the application after use with a call to \fBgss_release_name\fR(3GSS).
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_canonicalize_name()\fR function may return the status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_BAD_MECH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The identified mechanism is not supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_BAD_NAMETYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The provided internal name contains no elements that could be processed by the specified mechanism.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_BAD_NAME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The provided internal name was ill-formed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_acquire_cred\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_init_sec_context\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_release_name\fR(3GSS), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP

