'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH gss_oid_to_str 3GSS "22 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.12" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_oid_to_str \- convert an OID to a string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR... ] 
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fB\fR\fBgss_oid_to_str\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR, \fBconst gss_OID\fR \fIoid\fR,
     \fBgss_buffer_t\fR\fIoid_str\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Status code returned by underlying mechanism.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIoid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
\fBGSS-API\fR \fBOID\fR structure to convert.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIoid_str\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
String to receive converted \fBOID\fR.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_oid_to_str()\fR function converts a \fBGSS-API\fR \fBOID\fR structure to a string. You can use the function to convert the name of a mechanism from an \fBOID\fR to a simple string. This function is a convenience function, as is its complementary function, \fBgss_str_to_oid\fR(3GSS).
.sp
.LP
If an \fBOID\fR must be created, use \fBgss_create_empty_oid_set\fR(3GSS) and \fBgss_add_oid_set_member\fR(3GSS) to create it.  \fBOID\fRs created in this way must be released with \fBgss_release_oid_set\fR(3GSS). However, it is strongly suggested that applications use the default \fBGSS-API\fR mechanism instead of creating an \fBOID\fR for a specific mechanism.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_oid_to_str()\fR function returns one of the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_CALL_INACCESSIBLE_READ\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A required input parameter could not be read.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_CALL_INACCESSIBLE_WRITE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A required output parameter could not be written.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_add_oid_set_member\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_create_empty_oid_set\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_release_oid_set\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_str_to_oid\fR(3GSS), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP

.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
This function is included for compatibility only with programs using earlier versions of the \fBGSS-API\fR and should not be used for new programs. Other implementations of the \fBGSS-API\fR might not support this function, so portable programs should not rely on it. Sun might not continue to support this function.
