'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH gss_inquire_mechs_for_name 3GSS "22 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.12" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_inquire_mechs_for_name \- list mechanisms that support the specified name-type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR [\fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR] 
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_inquire_mechs_for_name\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_name_t\fR \fIinput_name\fR,\fBgss_OID_set *\fR\fImech_types\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_inquire_mechs_for_name()\fR function returns the set of mechanisms supported by the \fBGSS-API\fR that may be able to process the specified name.  Each mechanism returned will recognize at least one element within the internal name.
.sp
.LP
Some implementations of the \fBGSS-API\fR may perform this test by checking nametype information contained within the passed name and registration information provided by individual mechanisms.  This means that the \fImech_types\fR set returned by the function may indicate that a particular mechanism will understand the name, when in fact the mechanism would refuse to accept the name as input to \fBgss_canonicalize_name\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_init_sec_context\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_acquire_cred\fR(3GSS), or \fBgss_add_cred\fR(3GSS), due to some property of the name itself rather than the name-type. Therefore, this function should be used only as a pre-filter for a call to a subsequent mechanism-specific function.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_inquire_mechs_for_name()\fR follow in alphabetical order:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIinput_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
The name to which the inquiry relates.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImech_types\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Set of mechanisms that may support the specified name.  The returned \fBOID\fR set must be freed by the caller after use with a call to \fBgss_release_oid_set\fR(3GSS).
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_inquire_mechs_for_name()\fR function may return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_BAD_NAME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The \fIinput_name\fR parameter was ill-formed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_BAD_NAMETYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The \fIinput_name\fR parameter contained an invalid or unsupported type of name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_acquire_cred\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_add_cred\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_canonicalize_name\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_init_sec_context\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_release_oid_set\fR(3GSS), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP

