'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH gss_release_name 3GSS "22 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.12" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_release_name \- discard an internal-form name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR [\fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR] 
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_release_name\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR, \fBgss_name_t *\fR\fIname\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_release_name()\fR function frees \fBGSS-API\fR-allocated storage associated with an internal-form name.  The \fIname\fR is set to \fBGSS_C_NO_NAME\fR on successful completion of this call.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_release_name()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
A mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
The name to be deleted.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_release_name()\fR function may return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_BAD_NAME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The \fIname\fR parameter did not contain a valid name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP

