'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH gss_add_oid_set_member 3GSS "22 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.12" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_add_oid_set_member \- add an object identifier to an object identifier set
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR... ] 
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_add_oid_set_member\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_OID\fR \fImember_oid\fR, \fBgss_OID_set *\fR\fIoid_set\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_add_oid_set_member()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
A mechanism specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImember_oid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Object identifier to be copied into the set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIoid_set\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Set in which the object identifier should be inserted.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_add_oid_set_member()\fR function adds an object identifier to an object identifier set. You should use this function in conjunction with \fBgss_create_empty_oid_set\fR(3GSS) when constructing a set of mechanism \fBOID\fRs for input to \fBgss_acquire_cred\fR(3GSS). The \fIoid_set\fR parameter must refer to an \fBOID\fR-set created by \fBGSS-API\fR, that is, a set returned by \fBgss_create_empty_oid_set\fR(3GSS). 
.sp
.LP
The \fBGSS-API\fR creates a copy of the \fImember_oid\fR and inserts this copy into the set, expanding the storage allocated to the \fBOID\fR-set elements array, if necessary.  New members are always added to the end of the OID set's elements. If the \fImember_oid\fR is already present, the \fIoid_set\fR should remain unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_add_oid_set_member()\fR function can return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_acquire_cred\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_create_empty_oid_set\fR(3GSS), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP

