'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH gss_release_cred 3GSS "22 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.12" "Generic Security Services API Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gss_release_cred \- discard a credential handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR... ] 
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_release_cred\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBgss_cred_id_t *\fR\fIcred_handle\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_release_cred()\fR function informs the \fBGSS-API\fR that the specified credential handle is no longer required by the application and frees the associated resources. The \fIcred_handle\fR parameter is set to \fBGSS_C_NO_CREDENTIAL\fR when this call completes successfully.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_release_cred()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
A mechanism specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcred_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
An opaque handle that identifies the credential to be released. If \fBGSS_C_NO_CREDENTIAL\fR is specified, the \fBgss_release_cred()\fR function will complete successfully, but it will do nothing.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_release_cred()\fR may return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_NO_CRED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The referenced credentials cannot be accessed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP

