.\" Copyright (c) 2006, 2018, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.ds q \N'34'
.TH ogl-select 8s "17 Dec 2018"
.SH NAME
ogl-select \- boot time selection of OpenGL vendor files 
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I svc:/application/opengl/ogl-select
is a transient service for the Service Management Facility (SMF)
that determines at boot time which vendor supplied OpenGL headers
and libraries will be used.  The selection of the OpenGL vendor
should be automatic and in most cases will not require any
configuration.  However, for system configurations with special
needs a property can be used to select the vendor.  The property
is described in the SMF PROPERTIES section below. 
.PP
The SMF method performs the automatic probe by querying the
device driver attached to the primary framebuffer device, /dev/fb.
If the name reported by the driver matches the value advertised
by a vendor registry, the rules in the vendor registry will be
used to select the OpenGL headers and libraries.  The name reported
by the driver can be verified with \fIconstype\fP(1).  If the system
configuration does not match the desired OpenGL vendor, a SMF
property can be used to force the vendor selection.
.SH SMF PROPERTIES
.PP
Configuration properties for the \fBogl-select\fP service are
managed by the service management facility, \fBsmf\fR(5), under the service 
identifier:
.nf
svc:/application/opengl/ogl-select
.fi
.PP
Use \fBsvccfg\fR(8) to make configuration changes and to view configuration
information for this service\&. 
.PP
These properties may be set for \fBogl-select\fP:
.TP
.B options/vendor 
(Type astring) The vendor tag to use for selecting the OpenGL headers
and libraries, overriding the results of the automatic probe.  Available
vendors can be found with 'ls /lib/opengl/ogl_select/*_vendor_select'.
If the property is set to an unknown vendor tag, the method will default
to "mesa".  Setting the property to "" or "notset" causes it to be ignored
and the results of the automatic probe are used instead.  The default
value is "notset". 
.TP
.SH FILES
.TP 30
.I /lib/svc/manifest/application/opengl/ogl-select.xml
The SMF manifest
.TP 30
.I /lib/svc/method/ogl-select
The SMF method run by the manifest
.TP 30
.I /lib/opengl/ogl_select/\fB*\fP_vendor_select
Vendor registry files scanned by the manifest
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fIconstype\fP(1), smf\fP(5), \fIsvcadm\fP(1M), \fIsvccfg\fP(1M)

