.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
.\" paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
.\" Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\"
.TH xorgconfig 1 "24 Jun 2009"
.SH NAME
.PP
xorgconfig, xorgcfg \- generate an xorg.conf file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR xorgcfg (1)
and
.BR xorgconfig (1)
utilities for generating
.BR xorg.conf (4)
files are no longer included in this release.
.PP
The
.BR Xorg (1)
server does not require a configuration file in many cases,
and will autoconfigure itself if one is not present.  If the
default configuration does not meet your needs, you may use one of
these alternative methods to generate an xorg.conf file for
customization:
.IP " * "
When Xorg is started without a configuration file, the xorg.conf
data it generates automatically is logged in /var/log/Xorg.0.log
and may be copied to an xorg.conf file for customization.
.IP " * "
/usr/X11/bin/Xorg -configure, when the server is not already running,
will provide a sample configuration file for the currently detected
hardware in the system.
.IP " * "
Users of Nvidia graphics devices may use the provided
.BR nvidia-settings (1)
and
.BR nvidia-xconfig (1)
utilities to generate or update device-specific configurations.
.IP " * "
Users of Sun graphics devices for the SPARC platform may use the
.BR fbconfig (1)
utility to generate or update device-specific
configurations.
.PP
Input device settings formerly found in xorg.conf have in most cases
been replaced by settings made via the
.BR hal (5)
configuration framework in
.BR fdi (4)
configuration files.
.SH FILES
.IP /etc/hal/fdi/preprobe/10osvendor/10-x11-input.fdi
Default system configuration for input devices
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR Xorg (1),
.IR xorg.conf (4),
.IR hal (5),
.IR fdi (4),
.IR nvidia-settings (1),
.IR nvidia-xconfig (1),
.IR fbconfig (1).
