Release Notes for X11R7.7

The X.Org Foundation

April 2012

These release notes contain information about features and their status in the
X.Org Foundation X11R7.7 release.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Table of Contents

Introduction to the X11R7.7 Release
Summary of new features in X11R7.7
Overview of X11R7.7
Details of X11R7.7 components

    Video Drivers
    Input Drivers
    Xorg server
    Font support

Build changes and issues

    Strict compilation flags
    Silent build rules
    New configure options for font modules
    New configure options for documentation in modules

Miscellaneous

    Socket directory ownership and permissions

Deprecated components and removal plans

    Future Removals
    Removed in this Release

Attributions/Acknowledgements/Credits

Introduction to the X11R7.7 Release

This release is the eighth modular release of the X Window System™. The next
full release will be X11R7.8 and is expected in 2013.

Unlike X11R1 through X11R6.9, X11R7.x releases are not built from one
monolithic source tree, but many individual modules. These modules are
distributed as individual source code releases, and each one is released when
it is ready, instead of only when the overall window system is ready for
release. The X11R7.x releases are made by “rolling up” the individual module
releases into a collection that is often affectionately called the “katamari”
by the developers.

The X11R7.7 release does not include all of the software formerly included in
the previous X Window System releases. It is designed to be a reasonable
baseline from which to start when building the window system for the first time
for a new installation, distribution, or package set. It does not provide a
full desktop environment, expecting a more feature rich set of applications to
be installed from one of the several excellent desktop environments available
for the X Window System. The X.Org developers continue to maintain and produce
new releases of much of the software that was formerly in the main window
system releases but is no longer included in the katamari releases, including
many of the Athena Widgets desktop applications that were provided as samples
in previous window system versions.

Once their window system build is established, most builders watch for
announcements of individual module updates on the xorg-announce mailing list
and update to those as needed. The X.Org Foundation currently releases the X
Window System katamari releases approximately once a year, but many modules,
especially the X servers and drivers, are updated more frequently between those
releases.

For help with how to build and develop in the modular tree see the Modular
Developer's Guide in the X.Org wiki.

We encourage you to report bugs using freedesktop.org's bug tracking system
using the xorg product, and to submit bug fixes and enhancements to <
xorg-devel@lists.x.org>. More details on patch submission and review process
are available on the SubmittingPatches page of the X.Org wiki.

The release numbering is based on the original MIT X numbering system. X11
refers to the version of the network protocol that the X Window system is based
on: Version 11 was first released in 1988 and has been stable for nearly 25
years, with only upward compatible additions to the core X protocol, a record
of stability envied in computing. Formal releases of X started with X version 9
from MIT; the first commercial X products were based on X version 10. The MIT X
Consortium and its successors, the X Consortium, the Open Group X Project Team,
and the X.Org Group released versions X11R3 through X11R6.6. Since the founding
of the X.Org Foundation in early 2004, many further releases have been issued,
from X11R6.7 to the current 7.7.

The next section describes what is new in the latest full release (7.7)
compared with the previous full release (7.6).

Summary of new features in X11R7.7

This is a sampling of the new features in X11R7.7. A more complete list of
changes can be found in the ChangeLog files that are part of the source of each
X module.

  ● Multi-touch events are now supported for touchpads and touchscreens which
    can report position information on more than one finger providing input at
    the same time, such as found on many tablets and recent laptops. These are
    exposed by Xorg server 1.12 and later via the Xinput extension version 2.2.

  ● Additional Xinput extension features were introduced in version 2.1, as
    supported in Xorg server 1.11, including allowing clients to track raw
    events from input devices, additional detail in scrolling events so that
    clients may perform smoother scrolling, and additional constants in the
    Xlib-based libXi API.

  ● More progress has been made on the X.Org Documentation modernization - the
    rest of the library and protocol specifications have been converted to
    DocBook XML from the variety of formats they were previously in, and
    support for cross-linking between documents hase been added. On most
    systems these documents will be installed under /usr/share/doc/. They are
    also posted on the X.Org website at http://www.x.org/releases/X11R7.7/.

  ● Fence objects are now available in Version 3.1 of the Synchronization
    (“Sync”) extension. These allow clients to create a object that is either
    in “triggered” or “not-triggered” state, and to perform actions when the
    object becomes triggered. When a client requests a fence be triggered, the
    X server will first complete all rendering from previous requests that
    affects resources owned by the fence's screen before changing the state, so
    that clients may synchronize with such rendering. Support for these has
    been added to both the libxcb-sync and libXext API's.

  ● Pointer barriers were added by X Fixes extension Version 5.0. Compositing
    managers and desktop environments may have UI elements in particular screen
    locations such that for a single-headed display they correspond to easy
    targets, for example, the top left corner. For a multi-headed environment
    these corners should still be semi-impermeable. Pointer barriers allow the
    application to define additional constraint on cursor motion so that these
    areas behave as expected even in the face of multiple displays.

  ● Version 1.2 of the X Resource extension provides new requests that allow
    clients to query for additional identification information about other
    clients, such as their process id, and to request size information about
    the resources clients have allocated in the X server, to allow better
    observability and easier debugging of client resource allocations in the
    server.

  ● The XCB libraries have begun adding support for the GLX and XKB extensions.
    This work is not yet complete in this release, and not all of the
    functionality available through these extensions is accessibile via the XCB
    APIs. Some of this effort was funded by past Google Summer of Code
    projects.

  ● Video and input driver enhancements. Please see the ChangeLog files for
    individual drivers; there are far too many updates to list here.

  ● ... and the usual assortment of correctness and crash fixes.

Overview of X11R7.7

On most platforms, X11R7.7 has a single hardware-driving X server binary called
Xorg. This binary can dynamically load the video drivers, input drivers, and
other modules that are needed. Xorg has currently has support for Linux,
Solaris, and some BSD OSs on Alpha, PowerPC, IA-64, AMD64, Intel x86, Sparc,
and MIPS platforms.

Additional specialized X server binaries may be found depending on the platform
and build configuration, including:

Xdmx

    is a proxy X server that uses one or more other X servers as its display
    devices. It provides multi-head X functionality for displays that might be
    located on different machines.

Xnest

    is a nested X server, that operates as both an X client and X server. Xnest
    is a client of the real server which manages windows and graphics requests
    on its behalf. Xnest is a server to its own clients, and manages windows
    and graphics requests on their behalf. To these clients, it appears to be a
    conventional server.

Xephyr

    is a X server that outputs to a window on a pre-existing “host” X display.
    Unlike Xnest which is an X proxy, and thus limited to the capabilities of
    the host X server, Xephyr is a full X server which uses the host X server
    window as a “framebuffer” via fast SHM XImages.

Xvfb

    is a virtual framebuffer X server that can run on machines with no display
    hardware and no physical input devices. It emulates a dumb framebuffer
    using virtual memory.

Xquartz

    is an X server that interacts with the MacOS X native Aqua window system,
    displaying windows on the Mac desktop and accepting input from the Mac
    system devices, allowing X11 applications to be used in a native Mac
    desktop session.

Xwin

    is an X server that runs under the Cygwin environment, interacting with the
    Microsoft Windows native window system, displaying windows on the Windows
    desktop and accepting input from the Windows system devices, allowing X11
    applications to be used in a native Windows desktop session.

Details of X11R7.7 components

Video Drivers

X11R7.7 includes the following video drivers:

┌─────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────┐
│Driver Name  │Description                         │Further Information       │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│ark          │Ark Logic                           │                          │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│ast          │ASPEED Technology                   │                          │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│cirrus       │Cirrus Logic                        │                          │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│fbdev        │Linux framebuffer device            │fbdev(4)                  │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│geode (*)    │AMD Geode GX and LX                 │                          │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│glint        │3Dlabs, TI                          │glint(4)                  │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│i128         │Number Nine                         │README.I128, i128(4)      │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│intel        │Intel Integrated Graphics Processors│README.intel, intel(4)    │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│mach64       │ATI Mach64                          │README.ati                │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│mga          │Matrox                              │mga(4)                    │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│neomagic     │NeoMagic                            │neomagic(4)               │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│newport (-)  │SGI Newport                         │README.newport, newport(4)│
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│nv           │NVIDIA                              │nv(4)                     │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│r128         │ATI Rage128                         │README.r128, r128(4)      │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│radeon       │ATI Radeon                          │radeon(4)                 │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│savage       │S3 Savage                           │savage(4)                 │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│siliconmotion│Silicon Motion                      │siliconmotion(4)          │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│sis          │SiS                                 │README.SiS, sis(4)        │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│suncg6 (+)   │Sun GX and Turbo GX                 │                          │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│sunffb (+)   │Sun Creator/3D, Elite 3D            │                          │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│tdfx         │3Dfx Voodoo Banshee, 3, 4 & 5       │tdfx(4)                   │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│tga          │DEC TGA                             │README.DECtga             │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│trident      │Trident                             │trident(4)                │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│v4l          │Video4Linux                         │v4l(4)                    │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│vesa         │VESA                                │vesa(4)                   │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│vmware       │VMware guest OS                     │vmware(4)                 │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│voodoo       │3Dfx Voodoo 1 & 2                   │voodoo(4)                 │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────┤
│wsfb         │Workstation Framebuffer             │wsfb(4)                   │
└─────────────┴────────────────────────────────────┴──────────────────────────┘

Drivers marked with (*) are present in a preliminary form in this release, but
are not complete and/or stable yet.

Drivers marked with (+) are for Linux/Sparc only.

Drivers marked with (-) are for Linux/mips only.

Input Drivers

X11R7.7 includes the following input drivers:

┌───────────┬──────────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────┐
│Driver Name│Description                           │Further Information│
├───────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│evdev(*)   │Linux kernel EvDev                    │evdev(4)           │
├───────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│joystick   │Joystick                              │joystick(4)        │
├───────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│kbd        │generic keyboards (non-evdev systems) │kbd(4)             │
├───────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│mouse      │most mouse devices (non-evdev systems)│mousedrv(4)        │
├───────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│synaptics  │Synaptics & ALP touchpads             │synaptics(4)       │
├───────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│vmmouse    │VMWare virtual mouse                  │vmmouse(4)         │
├───────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│void       │dummy device                          │void(4)            │
└───────────┴──────────────────────────────────────┴───────────────────┘

Drivers marked with (*) are available for Linux only.

Xorg server

Loader and Modules

The Xorg server relies on the operating system's native module loader support
for handling program modules. The X server makes use of modules for video
drivers, X server extensions, input device drivers, framebuffer layers, and
internal components used by some drivers (like XAA & EXA).

The module interfaces (both API and ABI) used in this release are subject to
change without notice. While we will attempt to provide backward compatibility
for the module interfaces in stable releases, we cannot guarantee this.
Compatibility in the other direction is explicitly not guaranteed because new
modules may rely on interfaces added in new releases, nor is compatibility
across stable release branches (such as between Xorg 1.11 and 1.12).

Note about module security

The Xorg server runs with root privileges, so the Xorg server loadable modules
also run with these privileges. For this reason we recommend that all users be
careful to only use loadable modules from reliable sources, otherwise the
introduction of malware and contaminated code can occur and wreak havoc on your
system.

Configuration File

The Xorg server uses a configuration file as the primary mechanism for
providing configuration and run-time parameters. The configuration file format
is described in detail in the xorg.conf(5) manual page.

Note that this release features significant improvements for running the server
without a configuration file, so many users may find that that they don't need
a configuration file, or may rely on just snippets of configuration placed in
the xorg.conf.d directory.

If you do need to customize the configuration file, see the xorg.conf manual
page . You can also check the driver-specific manual pages and the related
documentation (found at driver tables) also.

The recommended method for generating a configuration file is to use the Xorg
server itself. Run as root:

        Xorg -configure


and follow the instructions.

Command Line Options

Command line options can be used to override some default parameters and
parameters provided in the configuration file. Command line options available
for use with all X servers in this release are described in the Xserver(1)
manual page. Command line options specific to the Xorg server are described in
the Xorg(1) manual page.

Multi-head

Some multi-head configurations are supported in X11R7.7. Support for multiple
PCI/AGP cards may require a kernel with changes to support VGA arbitration.

One of the main problems is with drivers not sufficiently initializing cards
that were not initialized at boot time. This has been improved somewhat with
the INT10 support that is used by most drivers (which allows secondary card to
be "soft-booted", but in some cases there are other issues that still need to
be resolved. Some combinations can be made to work better by changing which
card is the primary card (either by using a different PCI slot, or by changing
the system BIOS's preference for the primary card).

Xinerama

Xinerama is an X server extension that allows multiple physical screens
connected to multiple video devices to behave as a single screen. With
traditional multi-head in X11, windows cannot span or cross physical screens.
Xinerama removes this limitation. Xinerama does, however, require that the
physical screens all have the same root depth, so it isn't possible, for
example, to use an 8-bit screen together with a 16-bit screen in Xinerama mode.

Xinerama is not enabled by default, and can be enabled with the +xinerama
command line option for the X server. Note that enabling Xinerama may disable
certain other extensions which are not compatible with Xinerama.

DDC

The VESA® Display Data Channel (DDC™) standard allows the monitor to tell the
video card (or in some cases the computer directly) about itself; particularly
the supported screen resolutions and refresh rates.

Partial or complete DDC support is available in most of the video drivers. DDC
is enabled by default, but can be disabled with a "Device" section entry:
Option "NoDDC". We have support for DDC versions 1 and 2; these can be disabled
independently with Option "NoDDC1" and Option "NoDDC2".

At startup the server prints out DDC information from the display, and can use
this information to set the default monitor parameters, or to warn about
monitor sync limits if those provided in the configuration file don't match
those that are detected.

Changed behavior in handling information from DDC

The X server previously used DDC information to detect screen size and pitch,
and compute DPI automatically, allowing fonts and other UI elements to
automatically scale to appropriate sizes. This mechanism worked reasonably well
for many single-monitor cases, but did not compute accurate DPI values for
multi-monitor cases or less common single-display setups. Thus, this
autodetection has been removed, and the X server no longer tries to compute an
appropriate DPI value. All users wanting fonts, physical measurement units, and
other UI elements scaled appropriately for their display (including users for
whom autodetection previously worked) must now set DPI or some other scaling
factor explicitly, either via the X server's -dpi option, a DPI setting in
their graphical enironment, or an alternate scaling mechanism provided by their
environment.

GLX and the Direct Rendering Infrastructure (DRI)

Direct rendered OpenGL® support is provided for several hardware platforms by
the Direct Rendering Infrastructure (DRI). Further information about DRI can be
found at the DRI Project's web site. The 3D core rendering component is
provided by Mesa.

Of note is that this release supports building the X server using the
system-wide libdrm. Previously, drm was kept in the server's tree and loaded as
a module, rather than using the standard OS mechanisms for managing shared
libraries of code. This requires that the server be built using a version of
libdrm of 2.3.0 or newer if it is to use DRM.

Terminate Server keystroke

The Xorg server has previously allowed users to exit the server by pressing the
keys Control + Alt + Backspace. While this function is still enabled by default
in this release, the keymap data usually used with Xorg, from the
xkeyboard-config project, has been modified to not map that sequence by
default, in order to reduce the chance that inexperienced users will
accidentally destroy their work.

Users who wish to have this functionality available by default may enable it
via the XKB configuration option “terminate:ctrl_alt_bksp”. For instance, the
setxkbmap command can be used to enable this by running:

        setxkbmap -option "terminate:ctrl_alt_bksp"


The XKB Configuration Guide also includes an example xorg.conf.d file that sets
the “terminate:ctrl_alt_bksp” option by default on all keyboards. Many desktop
environments include XKB configuration options in their preferences to enable
this as well.

Grab debugging keystrokes

The Xorg server in this release provides various functions that can be mapped
to keystrokes to aid in the debugging of programs with errant input grabs.

The keysyms XF86LogGrabInfo and XF86LogWindowTree are defined to print
information to the Xorg log file on the current set of input grabs, and the
window tree of the current display. By default, these are available for use,
but not mapped to any key.

The keysym XF86Ungrab forces the X server to release all active grabs, which
may leave the clients holding them in an inconsistent state. XF86ClearGrab goes
further, killing the client connection of any client holding an active grab
when it is pressed. These keystrokes are intended to allow developers to debug
clients which are not properly releasing grabs or have problems occur while
input is grabbed. Since grabs are a fundamental part of the X client security
model, these keystrokes come with risks, such as the ability to bypass or kill
screen locks without knowing the password, and thus are not available by
default.

Users who are willing to accept the security risk and wish to enable this
functionality may do so via the XKB configuration option “grab:break_actions”.

Security issue in older xkeyboard-config releases

The xkeyboard-config data files included in this release have the grab
disabling keys correctly disabled by default, but versions before
xkeyboard-config 2.5 had them enabled, leading to the security risk described
above. When upgrading to the X server in this release be sure to also ensure
xkeyboard-config is a safe version. More details about this issue may be found
in advisories for CVE-2012-0064.

X Server startup state

The X servers in the X11R7.7 release now start by default with an empty black
screen and do not draw the mouse cursor until a client sets the cursor image.
To restore the classic behavior of starting with the grey weave pattern and ×
cursor, start the X server with the -retro option.

Font support

Details about the font support in X11R7.7 can be found in the “Fonts in X11R7.7
” document.

Default font installation directory

Previous versions of X installed font files under the lib/X11/fonts
subdirectory of the X installation directory (for instance, in X11R6 releases,
/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts was commonly used). This release uses the default
installation path of the fonts subdirectory of the datadir setting from the GNU
autoconf configuration. For instance, if the fonts are configured with ./
configure --prefix=/usr, they will be installed under subdirectories of /usr/
share/fonts/X11. The font module configure scripts all take an option of
--with-fontrootdir=PATH to override the default. If --with-fontrootdir is not
specified, the fontutil pkg-config file will be consulted to find the
fontrootdir specified when the fontutil module was installed.

Bitmap font compression methods

The X11R7.7 release supports PCF format bitmap fonts stored uncompressed or
compressed via the compress, gzip, or bzip2 programs. To utilize bzip2
compression, the libXfont and mkfontscale modules must be built with the
--with-bzip2 — all other methods are enabled by default.

To specify which compression method to use when installing a font module from
X11R7.7 the configure scripts accept an option of --with-compression=TYPE,
where TYPE may be none, compress, gzip, or bzip2.

Type1 Font support

Previous versions of X came with two Postscript Type1 font backends. The
functionality from the “Type1” backend has been replaced by the Type1 support
in the “FreeType” backend.

CID Font support

The CID-keyed font format was designed by Adobe Systems for fonts with large
character sets. The CID-keyed format is obsolete, as it has been superseded by
other formats such as OpenType/CFF and support for CID-keyed fonts has been
removed from X11.

Build changes and issues

Strict compilation flags

Most of the modules in this release use stricter compiler flags when building
with the GNU gcc, LLVM clang, Oracle Solaris Studio, or Intel compilers. These
flags both enable more warnings, and promote some warnings to fatal errors in
the build. If these flags cause your build to fail, you can disable the flags
that turn these selected warnings into errors by adding
--disable-selective-werror to the configure command for the affected module. If
that is necessary for any X.Org modules, please report a bug in the xorg
product on https://bugs.freedesktop.org/.

Builders seeking even stricter compiler checks can instead pass
--enable-strict-compilation to the configure command to make all warnings
become errors.

Silent build rules

Most of the modules in this release use the AM_SILENT_RULES option of GNU
automake 1.11. When building the software, most output will show an abbreviated
format for the commands being run, such as:

   CC   xmen.o


To enable verbose output, showing all the arguments to the commands being run,
add the flag V=1 to the make command line or add the flag
--disable-silent-rules to the configure command.

New configure options for font modules

The bitmap font modules now accept a configure option of
--disable-all-encodings to set the default for all encodings to off, requiring
builders to then pass --enable-<encoding> flags for each encoding to be built.

New configure options for documentation in modules

As many more modules now contain documentation to be converted from DocBook XML
to text, HTML, PostScript, and/or PDF formats, new standard options have been
added to the configure macros to control the build of these in the modules.

                    Enables or disables use of the xmlto command to translate
--with-xmlto=yes|no DocBook XML to other formats. All DocBook XML conversions
                    require use of this command.

--with-fop=yes|no   Enables or disables use of the Apache fop command to
                    translate DocBook XML to PostScript and PDF formats.

--enable-docs=yes|  Enables or disables the build and installation of all
no                  documentation except traditional man pages or those covered
                    by the --enable-devel-docs and --enable-specs options.

--enable-devel-docs Enables or disables the build and installation of
=yes|no             documentation for developers of the X.Org software modules.

--enable-specs=yes| Enables or disables the build and installation of the
no                  formal specification documents for protocols and APIs.

Miscellaneous

This section describes other items of note for the X11R7.7 release.

Socket directory ownership and permissions

The socket directories created in /tmp are now required to be owned by root and
have their sticky-bit set. If the permissions are not set correctly, the
component using this directory will print an error message and fail to start.
Common socket directories that are known to be affected include:

        /tmp/.font-unix
        /tmp/.ICE-unix
        /tmp/.X11-unix


These directories are used by the font server (xfs), applications using the
Inter-Client Exchange protocol (ICE) and the X server, respectively.

There are several solutions to the problem of when to create these directories.
They could be created at install time by the system's installer if the /tmp dir
is persistent. They could be created at boot time by the system's boot scripts
(e.g., the init.d scripts). Or, they could be created by PAM modules at service
startup or user login time.

The solution chosen is platform dependent, and the system administrator should
be able to handle creating those directories on any systems that do not have
the correct ownership or permissions.

Deprecated components and removal plans

This section lists current plans for removal of obsolete or deprecated
components in the X.Org releases. As our releases are open source, users who
continue to require these can find the source in previous releases and continue
to use these, but the X.Org Foundation and its volunteers have decided the
burden of continued maintenance and distribution in the core X11 releases
outweighs the benefits of doing so. In some cases, this is simply because no
one has volunteered to do continued maintenance, so if software is listed here
that you need, you can contact <xorg-devel@lists.x.org> to volunteer to take
over maintainership, either inside or outside of the Xorg release process.

Future Removals

          DGA 2.0 is included in 7.7. Documentation for the client libraries
          can be found in the XDGA(3) man page. DGA should be considered
DGA       deprecated; if you are relying on it, please let us know what you
version 2 need it for so we can find better solutions. In this release, support
          has been removed for all DGA rendering and mapping code, leaving just
          mode setting and raw input device access.

          Xorg server 1.4 started using the HAL framework to discover connected
          input devices, receive notification of hotplug events for them, and
Input     to retrieve configuration parameters for them. The HAL maintainers
device    have since deprecated HAL, so the X.Org developers have begun
discovery replacement with alternatives. As a result, configuration of input
via HAL   devices via HAL *.fdi files is no longer supported on Linux platforms
          using udev, and may not be supported on other platforms in future
          Xorg server releases.

          As described in the section called “Overview of X11R7.7”, this
Nested    release contains several X servers that either display onto another X
and       server (Xephyr & Xnest), or render into a virtual memory framebuffer
virtual X (Xvfb & Xfake). These may be replaced in a future release by use of
servers   the Xorg server with the xf86-video-nested and xf86-video-dummy
          drivers which perform the same tasks.

Removed in this Release

             This release no longer contains the following drivers, due to lack
             of maintainers with relevant hardware. Existing driver versions
             may work with current Xorg servers, but they are not being
             actively updated to support Xorg driver API & ABI changes.

               ● xf86-input-acecad: Acecad Flair

               ● xf86-input-aiptek: Aiptek USB tablet

               ● xf86-video-apm: Alliance Pro Motion

               ● xf86-video-chips: Chips & Technologies

               ● xf86-video-i740: Intel i740

               ● xf86-video-rendition: Rendition Verite

Unmaintained   ● xf86-video-s3: S3 (not ViRGE or Savage)
drivers
               ● xf86-video-s3virge: S3 ViRGE

               ● xf86-video-sisusb: SiS Net2280-based USB

               ● xf86-video-suncg14: Sun CG14

               ● xf86-video-suncg3: Sun CG3

               ● xf86-video-sunleo: Sun Leo (ZX)

               ● xf86-video-suntcx: Sun TCX

               ● xf86-video-tseng: Tseng Labs

               ● xf86-video-xgi: XGI

               ● xf86-video-xgixp: XGI Volari 8300

Attributions/Acknowledgements/Credits

This section lists the credits for the X11R7.7 release. For a more detailed
breakdown, refer to the ChangeLog file in the source tree for each module, the
history in the xorg product in freedesktop.org's git repositories or the 'git
log' information for individual source files.

The X Window System has been a collaborative effort from its inception. Our
apologies for anyone or organization inadvertently overlooked. Many individuals
(including major contributors) who worked on X are represented by their
employers in this list. If you feel we have left anyone out, please let us
know.

These people contributed in some way to X11R7.7 since the release of X11R7.6:

Aapo Rantalainen               Lev Nezhdanov
Aaron Culich                   Linus Arver
Aaron Plattner                 Luc Verhaegen
Abdoulaye Walsimou Gaye        Maarten Lankhorst
Adam Jackson                   Maarten Maathuis
Adam Tkac                      Macpaul Lin
Adrian Bunk                    Magnus Kessler
Alan Coopersmith               Marcin Kościelnicki
Alan Curry                     Marcin Slusarz
Alan Hourihane                 Marcin Woliński
Alban Browaeys                 Marek Olšák
Albert Damen                   Mario Kleiner
Aldis Berjoza                  Mark Dokter
Alessandro Guido               Mark Kettenis
Alex Deucher                   Mark Schreiber
Alex Plotnick                  Marko Macek
Alexander Polakov              Marko Myllynen
Alexandr Shadchin              Markus Duft
Alexandre Julliard             Markus Fleschutz
Alexey Shumitsky               Mart Raudsepp
Alistair Leslie-Hughes         Martin Langhoff
Ander Conselvan de Oliveira    Martin-Éric Racine
Andrea Canciani                Marton Balint
Andreas Schwab                 Matěj Cepl
Andreas Wettstein              Mathias Krause
Andrew Randrianasulu           Mathieu Bérard
Andrew Turner                  Mathieu Taillefumier
Andy Furniss                   Matt Dew
Anssi Hannula                  Matt Turner
Antoine Martin                 Matthew D. Fuller
Arkadiusz Miśkiewicz           matthew green
Armin K                        Matthias Clasen
Arnaud Fontaine                Matthias Hopf
Arthur Taylor                  Matthieu Herrb
Arvind Umrao                   Matti Hamalainen
Avram Lyon                     Max Schwarz
Bartosz Brachaczek             Maxim Iorsh
Bartosz Kosiorek               Mehdi Dogguy
Bastian Blank                  meng
Bastien Nocera                 Michael Chang
Ben Hutchings                  Michael Larabel
Benjamin Close                 Michael Olbrich
Benjamin Herrenschmidt         Michael Stapelberg
Benjamin Otte                  Michael Thayer
Benjamin Tissoires             Michał Górny
Bernie Innocenti               Michal Marek
Bill Nottingham                Michał Masłowski
Bjørn Mork                     Michal Suchanek
Bodo Graumann                  Michel Dänzer
Bryce Harrington               Michel Hummel
Carl Worth                     Mikael Magnusson
Carlos Garnacho                Mike Frysinger
Casper Dik                     Mike Stroyan
Cédric Cano                    Mikhail Gusarov
Chad Versace                   Modestas Vainius
Chase Douglas                  Mohammed Sameer
Choe Hwanjin                   Nick Bowler
Chris Bagwell                  Nicolai Stange
Chris Ball                     Nicolas Cavallari
Chris Halse Rogers             Nicolas Joly
Chris Wilson                   Nicolas Kaiser
Christian König                Nicolas Kalkhof
Christian Toutant              Nicolas Peninguy
Christian Weisgerber           Nikolai Kondrashov
Christoph Brill                Nils Wallménius
Christoph Reimann              Nithin Nayak Sujir
Christophe Roland              Nobuhiro Iwamatsu
Christopher James Halse Rogers Olaf Buddenhagen
Christopher Yeleighton         Oldřich Jedlička
Clemens Eisserer               Oleh Nykyforchyn
Colin Harrison                 Oliver McFadden
Cristian Rodríguez             Oliver Schmidt
Cyril Brulebois                Olivier Fourdan
Daiki Ueno                     Olli Vertanen
Dan Horák                      Ondrej Zary
Dan Nicholson                  Owen Taylor
Daniel A. Steffen              Pander
Daniel Drake                   Pär Lidberg
Daniel Kurtz                   Parag Nemade
Daniel Stone                   Patrick Curran
Daniel Vetter                  Patrick E. Kane
Dave Airlie                    Paul Fox
David Barksdale                Paul Menzel
David Coles                    Paul Neumann
David Coppa                    Pauli Nieminen
David Fries                    Paulius Zaleckas
David Ge                       Paulo Zanoni
David Nusinow                  Pelle Johansson
David Reveman                  Pete Beardmore
David Ronis                    Peter Clifton
Denis 'GNUtoo' Carikli         Peter Harris
Derek Buitenhuis               Peter Hutterer
Derek Foreman                  Peter Korsgaard
Derek Wang                     Peter Zotov
Devin J. Pohly                 Philip Langdale
Diego Elio Pettenò             Philipp Reh
Dirk Wallenstein               Phillp Haddad
dtakahashi42                   Pierre-Loup A. Griffais
Eamon Walsh                    Priit Laes
Ed Schouten                    Promathesh Mandal
Edward Sheldrake               Rami Ylimäki
Egbert Eich                    Reinhard Karcher
Eitan Adler                    Rémi Cardona
Elias Probst                   Richard Hartmann
Elie Bleton                    Rob Clark
Elvis Pranskevichus            Robert Ancell
Emanuele Giaquinta             Robert Bragg
Eoghan Sherry                  Robert Hooker
Eric Anholt                    Robert Morell
Erik Kilfoil                   Roberto Branciforti
Erik Saule                     Roger Cruz
Erkki Seppälä                  Roland Cassard
Eugeni Dodonov                 Roland Scheidegger
Evan Broder                    Roman Jarosz
Fabio Pedretti                 Ross Burton
Federico Mena Quintero         Rui Matos
Fernando Carrijo               Ryan Pavlik
Ferry Huberts                  Sam Spilsbury
Francisco Jerez                Samuel Thibault
Frank Huang                    Sascha Hlusiak
Frank Mariak                   Satoshi KImura
Frédéric Boiteux               Scott James Remnant
Fredrik Höglund                Sebastian Glita
Fryderyk Dziarmagowski         Sedat Dilek
Gaetan Nadon                   Sergey Samokhin
George Staplin                 Sergey V. Udaltsov
Giuseppe Bilotta               Servaas Vandenberghe
Glenn Burkhardt                Siddhesh Poyarekar
Guillem Jover                  Simon Farnsworth
György Balló                   Simon Que
Hans Verkuil                   Simon Thum
Hans-Juergen Mauser            Sitsofe Wheeler
Hans-Peter Budek               Søren Sandmann Pedersen
Harshula Jayasuriya            Stefan Dirsch
Havoc Pennington               Stefan Glasenhardt
Henry Zhao                     Stefan Kost
Ian Osgood                     Stefan Potyra
Ian Romanick                   Stephan Hilb
Ilija Hadzic                   Stephane Marchesin
Ivan Bulatovic                 Stephen Turnbull
Jakob Bornecrantz              Stuart Kreitman
James Cloos                    Takashi Iwai
James Jones                    Terry Lambert
James Simmons                  Thierry Vignaud
Jamey Sharp                    Thomas Bächler
Jamie Kennea                   Thomas Fjellstrom
Jan Hauffa                     Thomas Hellström
Jan Kriho                      Thomas Hoger
Janne Huttunen                 Thordur Bjornsson
Jari Aalto                     Tiago Vignatti
Javier Acosta                  Till Matthiesen
Javier Jardón                  Tim van der Molen
Javier Pello                   Tim Yamin
Jay Cotton                     Timo Aaltonen
Jeetu Golani                   Tobias Droste
Jeff Chua                      Tollef Fog Heen
Jens Elkner                    Tom "spot" Callaway
Jeremy Huddleston              Tom Fogal
Jerome Carretero               Tomas Carnecky
Jerome Glisse                  Tomas Frydrych
Jesse Adkins                   Tomas Hoger
Jesse Barnes                   Tomáš Trnka
Jian Zhao                      Toralf Förster
JJ Ding                        Tormod Volden
Joe Nahmias                    Trevor Woerner
Joe Shaw                       U. Artie Eoff
Joerg Sonnenberger             Uli Schlachter
Johannes Obermayr              Ulrich Müller
John Martin                    Van de Bugger
Jon Nettleton                  Vasily Khoruzhick
Jon TURNEY                     Vasyĺ V. Vercynśkyj
Jools Wills                    Victor Machado
Jordan Hayes                   Ville Skyttä
Jörn Horstmann                 Ville Syrjälä
Josh Triplett                  Vincent Torri
Julien Cristau                 Walter Bender
Julien Danjou                  Walter Harms
Justin Dou                     William Jon McCann
Justin Mattock                 Xavier Bachelot
Kai-Uwe Behrmann               Xiang, Haihao
Kees Cook                      Xue Wei
Keith Packard                  Xunx Fang
Kenneth Graunke                Y.C. Chen
Kent Baxley                    Yaakov Selkowitz
Kirill Elagin                  Yann Droneaud
Knut Petersen                  Yannick Heneault
Konstantin Belousov            Zack Rusin
Kristian Høgsberg              Zhao Yakui
Kristof Szabo                  Zhenyu Wang
Krzysztof Halasa               Zhigang Gong
Kusanagi Kouichi               Zou Nan hai
Lennart Poettering              

and the members of the Translation Project.

This product includes software developed by:

2d3d Inc.                                  Kevin E. Martin
3Dlabs Inc. Ltd.                           Kim woelders
Aaron Plattner                             Kristian Høgsberg
Adam de Boor                               Larry Wall
Adam Jackson                               Lars Knoll
Adobe Systems Inc.                         Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.               Leif Delgass
After X-TT Project                         Lennart Augustsson
AGE Logic Inc.                             Leon Shiman
Alan Coopersmith                           Lexmark International Inc.
Alan Cox                                   Linus Torvalds
Alan Hourihane                             Linuxcare Inc.
Alexander Gottwald                         Lorens Younes
Alex Deucher                               Luc Verhaegen
Alex Williamson                            Machine Vision Holdings Inc.
Alexei Gilchrist                           Mandriva Linux
Anders Carlsson                            Manfred Brands
Andreas Luik                               Manish Singh
Andreas Monitzer                           Marc Aurele La France
Andreas Robinson                           Mark Adler
Andrei Barbu                               Mark J. Kilgard
Andrew C Aitchison                         Mark Kettenis
Andrey A. Chernov                          Mark Leisher
Andy Ritger                                Mark Smulders
Angus Lees                                 Mark Vojkovich
Ani Joshi                                  Martin Husemann
Anton Zioviev                              Marvin Solomon
Apollo Computer Inc.                       Massachusetts Inst. Of Technology
Apple Computer Inc.                        Matrox Graphics
Apple Inc.                                 Matt Dew
Ares Software Corp.                        Matthew Grossman
Arnaud LE HORS                             Matthias Hopf
Arne Schwabe                               Matthias Ihmig
ASPEED Technology Inc.                     Matthieu Herrb
AT&T Inc.                                  Metro Link Inc.
ATI Technologies Inc.                      Michal Rehacek
Bart Massey                                Michael Bax
Bart Trojanowski, Symbio Technologies, LLC Michael H. Schimek
BEAM Ltd.                                  Michael P. Marking
Benjamin Herrenschmidt                     Michael Schimek
Benjamin Rienfenstahl                      Michael Smith
Ben Skeggs                                 Michel Dänzer
Beth Mardutho: The Syriac Institute        Mike A. Harris
Bigelow and Holmes                         Mike Harris
Bill Reynolds                              Ming Yu
Bitstream Inc.                             MIPS Computer Systems Inc.
Bogdan Diaconescu                          MontaVista Software Inc.
Branden Robinson                           National Security Agency
Brian Fundakowski Feldman                  National Semiconductor
Brian Goines                               NCR Corporation Inc.
Bogdan D.                                  Neil Brown
Brian Paul                                 NetBSD Foundation
Bruce Kalk                                 Netscape Communications Corp.
Bruno Haible                               Network Computing Devices Inc.
Bryan Stine                                New Mexico State University
Bryan W. Headley.                          Nicholas Joly
C. Scott Ananian                           Nicholas Miell
Carl Switzky                               Nicholas Wourms
Catharon Productions Inc.                  Nicolai Haehnle
Charles Murcko                             Noah Levitt
Chen Xiangyang                             Nolan Leake
Chisato Yamauchi                           Nokia Corporation
Chris Constello                            Nokia Home Communications
Chris Salch                                Novell Inc.
Christian Thaeter                          Nozomi YTOW
Christian Zietz                            NTT Software Corporation
Cognition Corp.                            Number Nine Computer Corp.
Compaq Computer Corporation                Number Nine Visual Technologies
Concurrent Computer Corporation            NVIDIA Corporation
Conectiva S.A.                             Oivier Danet
Corin Anderson                             Oki Technosystems Laboratory Inc.
Corvin Zahn.                               Olivetti Research Limited
Cronyx Ltd.                                OMRON Corporation
Craig Struble                              Open Software Foundation
Daewoo Electronics Co. Ltd.                Open Text Corporation
Dag-Erling Smørgrav                        OpenedHand Ltd.
Dale Schumacher                            Oracle Corp.
Damien Miller                              Orest Zborowski
Daniel Berrange                            Owen Taylor
Daniel Borca                               Pablo Saratxaga
Daniel Stone                               Panacea Inc.
Daniver Limited                            Panagiotis Tsirigotis
Daryll Strauss                             Paolo Severini
Data General Corporation                   Pascal Haible
Dave Airlie                                Patrick Lecoanet
David Bateman                              Patrick Lerda
David Dawes                                Paul Anderson
David E. Wexelblat                         Paul Elliott
David Holland                              Paul Mackerras
David J. McKay                             Peter Breitenlohner
David McCullough                           Peter Hutterer
David Mosberger-Tang                       Peter Kunzmann
David Reveman                              Peter Osterlund
David S. Miller                            Peter Trattler
David Woodhouse                            Phil Karlton
Davor Matic                                Philip Blundell
Deron Johnson                              Philip Homburg
Digeo Inc.                                 Philip Langdale
Dennis De Winter                           Precision Insight Inc.
Digital Equipment Corporation              Prentice Hall
Dirk Hohndel                               Quarterdeck Office Systems
Dmitry Golubev                             Radek Doulik
Donnie Berkholz                            Ralf Habacker
DOS-EMU-Development-Team                   Randy Hendry
Doug Anson                                 Ranier Keller
Drew Parsons                               Red Hat Inc.
Earle F. Philhower III                     Regis Cridlig
Edouard TISSERANT                          Rene Cougnenc
Eduard Fuchs                               Richard A. Hecker
Eduardo Horvath                            Richard Burdick
Egbert Eich                                Rich Murphey
Egmont Koblinger                           Rickard E. Faith
Elliot Lee                                 Rik Faith
Eric Anholt                                Robert Chesler
Eric Fortune                               Robert Millan
Eric Sunshine                              Robert V. Baron
Erik Fortune                               Robert W. Scheifler
Erik Nygren                                Robin Cutshaw
Evans & Sutherland Computer Corp.          Roland Mainz
Fabio Massimo Di Nitto                     Roland Scheidegger
Fabrizio Gennari                           Ronny Vindenes
Fedor P. Goncharov                         Russ Blaine
Felix Kühling                              Ryan Breen
Finn Thoegersen                            Ryan Lortie
Francesco Zappa Nardelli                   Ryan Underwood
Frank C. Earl                              S. Lehner
Florian Loitsch                            S3 Graphics Inc.
Francisco Jerez                            Sam Leffler
Fred Hucht                                 Santa Cruz Operation Inc.
Frederic Lepied                            Sascha Hlusiak.
Fredrik Höglund                            SciTech Software
Free Software Foundation                   Scott Laird
Fujitsu Limited                            Sebastien Marineau
Fujitsu Open Systems Solutions Inc.        Serge Winitzki
Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd.                        Sergey Vovk
Gaetan Nadon                               Shigehiro Nomura
Gareth Hughes                              ShoGraphics Inc.
Geert Uytterhoeven                         Shunsuke Akiyama
George Fufutos                             Silicon Graphics Computer Systems
George Sapountzis                          Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Gerrit Jan Akkerman                        Silicon Integrated Systems Corp
Gerry Toll                                 Silicon Motion Inc.
Ghozlane Toumi                             Simon P. Cooper
Glenn G. Lai                               Simon Thum
GNOME Foundation                           Snitily Graphics Consulting Services
Go Watanabe                                Sony Corporation
Google Summer of Code participants         Søren Sandmann
Greg Kroah-Hartman                         SRI
Gregory Mokhin                             Stanislav Brabec
Greg Parker                                Stefan Bethge
GROUPE BULL                                Stefan Dirsch
Guillem Jover                              Stefan Gmeiner
Guy Martin                                 Stephane Marchesin
Hans Oey                                   Stephan Lang
Harald Koenig                              Steven Lang
Harm Hanemaayer                            Stuart Kreitman
Harold L Hunt II                           Sun Microsystems Inc.
Harry Langenbacher                         SunSoft Inc.
Hartwig Felger                             SuSE Inc
Henry A. Worth                             Sven Luther
Henry Davies                               Takis Psarogiannakopoulos
Hewlett-Packard Company                    Takuma Murakami
Hideki Hiura                               Takuya SHIOZAKI
Hitachi Ltd.                               T. A. Phelps
Holger Veit                                Tektronix Inc.
Hong Bo Peng                               Theo de Raadt
Howard Greenwell                           Theodore Ts'o
Hummingbird Communications Ltd.            The Open Group
Ian Romanick                               The Unichrome Project
IBM Corporation                            The Weather Channel Inc.
Inst. of Software Academia Sinica          Thomas E. Dickey
Intel Corporation                          Thomas G. Lane
INTERACTIVE Systems Corporation            Thomas Hellström
Itai Nahshon                               Thomas Mueller
Itronix Inc.                               Thomas Roell
Ivan Kokshaysky                            Thomas Thanner
Ivan Pascal                                Thomas Winischhofer
Jakub Jelinek                              Thomas Wolfram
James Tsillas                              Thorsten.Ohl
Jamey Sharp                                Tiago Gons
Jason Bacon                                Tilman Sauerbeck
Jaymz Julian                               Todd C. Miller
Jean-loup Gailly                           Tomohiro KUBOTA
Jeff Hartmann                              Torrey Lyons
Jeff Kirk                                  Torrey T. Lyons
Jeffrey Hsu                                TOSHIBA Corp.
Jehan Bing                                 Toshimitsu Tanaka
Jeremy C. Reed                             Travis Tilley
Jeremy Katz                                Trolltech AS
Jeremy Huddleston                          Troy D. Hanson
Jerome Glisse                              Tungsten Graphics Inc.
Jesse Barnes                               Tuomas J. Lukka
Jim Gettys                                 Ty Sarna
Jim Tsillas                                UCHIYAMA Yasushi
Joerg Sonnenberger                         Unicode Inc.
John Dennis                                UniSoft Group Limited
John Harper                                University of California
John Heasley                               University of South Australia
Jonathan Adamczewski                       University of Utah
Jon Block                                  University of Wisconsin
Jon Smirl                                  UNIX System Laboratories Inc.
Jon Tombs                                  URW++ GmbH
Jörg Bösner                                Valery Inozemtsev
Jorge Delgado                              VA Linux Systems
José Fonseca                               VIA Technologies Inc.
Josh Triplett                              Video Electronics Standard Assoc.
Joseph Friedman                            VMware Inc.
Joseph P. Skudlarek                        Vrije Universiteit
Joseph V. Moss                             Wittawat Yamwong
Julio M. Merino Vidal                      Wyse Technology Inc.
Juan Romero Pardines                       X Consortium
Juliusz Chroboczek                         XFree86 Project Inc.
Jyunji Takagi                              Xi Graphics Inc.
Kaleb Keithley                             X-Oz Technologies
Kazushi (Jam) Marukawa                     X-TrueType Server Project
Kazuyuki (ikko-) Okamoto                   X.Org Foundation
Kazutaka YOKOTA                            XGI Technology
Kean Johnston                              Yu Shao
Keith Packard                              Zack Rusin
Keith Whitwell                             Zephaniah E. Hull
Kensuke Matsuzaki                          Zhenyu Wang

This product includes software developed by The XFree86 Project, Inc (http://
www.xfree86.org/) and its contributors.

This product includes software that is based in part on the work of the
FreeType Team (http://www.freetype.org/).

This product includes software developed by the University of California,
Berkeley and its contributors.

This product includes software developed by Christopher G. Demetriou.

This product includes software developed by the NetBSD Foundation, Inc. (http:/
/www.netbsd.org/) and its contributors.

This product includes software developed by X-Oz Technologies (http://
www.x-oz.com/).

