'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH "ntptime" "1M" "" "" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
ntptime \- Display Kernel Time Variables.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.n
\fB/usr/sbin/ntptime\fR [\fB-chr\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIest_error\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfrequency\fR]
 [\fB-m\fR \fImax_error\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIoffset\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIstatus\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItime_constant\fR]
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This program is used to display or set the kernel variables used by NTP as described in the documentation at 
file:///usr/share/doc/ntp/kern.html entitled "A Kernel Model for Precision Timekeeping". A similar display can 
be obtained using the \fBntpdc\fP program and \fBkerninfo\fP command. The actual meaning of these variables
is rather difficult to understand, but the \fBntptime\fP program is primarily useful to determine if the variables
are set at all or to clear them if they are.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BR "-c"
Display the time taken to call ntp_gettime (us)
.TP
.BR "-e \fIesterror\fP"
Set the estimated error, in microseconds.
.TP
.BR "-f \fIfrequency\fP"
Set the frequency error (-500 .. 500), in parts per million.
.TP
.BR "-h"
Display help information.
.TP
.BR "-m \fImaxerror\fP"
Set the maximum possible error, in microseconds.
.TP
.BR "-o \fIoffset\fP"
Set the offset in microseconds.
.TP
.BR "-r"
Print the unix and NTP time raw
.TP
.BR "-s \fIstatus\fP"
Set the status bits. Do not use this unless you know what you are doing.
.TP
.BR "-t \fItimeconstant\fP"
Set the log2 of PLL time constant, an integer in the range 0-10.
.SH NOTES
.LP
The documentation available at /usr/share/doc/ntp is provided as is from the
\fBNTP\fR distribution and may contain information that is not applicable to
the software as provided in this partIcular distribution.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBntpd\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
