'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH sasl_canonuser_add_plugin 3SASL "16 Sep 2003" "SunOS 5.12" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_canonuser_add_plugin \- add a SASL user canonicalization plug-in
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/saslplug.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_canonuser_add_plugin\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIplugname\fR,
     \fBsasl_canonuser_plug_init_t *\fR\fIcplugfunc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_canonuser_add_plugin()\fR interface to add a user canonicalization plug-in to the current list of user canonicalization plug-ins in the SASL library.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIplugname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
The name of the user canonicalization plug-in.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcplugfunc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
The value of \fIcplugfunc\fR is filled in by the \fBsasl_canonuser_plug_init_t\fR structure.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_server_add_plugin()\fR returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
The call to \fBsasl_client_add_plugin()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_BADVERS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Version mismatch with plug-in.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_NOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Memory shortage failure.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on other SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library/security/libsasl
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
