'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH sasl_getcallback_t 3SASL "27 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.12" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_getcallback_t \- callback function to lookup a sasl_callback_t for a connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/saslplug.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_getcallback_t\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fR\fIconn\fR, \fBunsigned long\fR \fIcallbacknum\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fI(**proc)\fR( ), \fBvoid **\fR\fIpcontext\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsasl_getcallback_t()\fR function is a callback to lookup a sasl_callback_t for a connection.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
The connection to lookup a callback for.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcallbacknum\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
The number of the callback.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIproc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Pointer to the callback function. The value of \fIproc\fR is set to \fINULL\fR upon failure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIpcontext\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Pointer to the callback context. The value of \fIpcontext\fR is set to \fINULL\fR upon failure.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Like other SASL callback functions, \fBsasl_getcallback_t()\fR returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error code. See <\fBsasl.h\fR> for a complete list of SASL error codes.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
The call to \fBsasl_getcallback_t()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_FAIL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
Unable to find a callback of the requested type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_INTERACT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
The caller must use interaction to get data.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(7) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library/security/libsasl
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(7)
