'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH sasl_seterror 3SASL "14 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.12" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_seterror \- set the error string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBsasl_seterror\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fR\fIconn\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIflags\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fR\fIfmt\fR, ...);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsasl_seterror()\fR interface sets the error string that will be returned by \fBsasl_errdetail\fR(3SASL). Use \fBsyslog\fR(3C) style formatting, that is, use \fBprintf()\fR\(emstyle with \fB%m\fR as the most recent \fBerrno\fR error.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsasl_seterror()\fR interface is primarily used by server callback functions and internal plug-ins, for example, with the \fBsasl_authorize_t\fR callback. The \fBsasl_seterror()\fR interface triggers a call to the SASL logging callback, if any, with a level of \fBSASL_LOG_FAIL\fR, unless the \fBSASL_NOLOG\fR flag is set.
.sp
.LP
Make the message string sensitive to the current language setting. If there is no \fBSASL_CB_LANGUAGE\fR callback, message strings must be \fBi-default\fR. Otherwise, UTF-8 is used. Use of \fIRFC 2482\fR for mixed-language text is encouraged.
.sp
.LP
If the value of \fIconn\fR is \fINULL\fR, the \fBsasl_seterror()\fR interface fails.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
The \fBsasl_conn_t\fR for which the call to \fBsasl_seterror()\fR applies.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIflags\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
If set to \fBSASL_NOLOG\fR, the call to \fBsasl_seterror()\fR is not logged.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfmt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
A \fBsyslog\fR(3C) style format string.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_seterror()\fR has no return values.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library/security/libsasl
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errdetail\fR(3SASL), \fBsyslog\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
Whistler, K. and Adams, G. \fIRFC 2482, Language Tagging in Unicode Plain Text\fR. Network Working Group. January 1999.
